---
layout: page
title: Week Six
post_description: This week we are half way through the bootcamp. So far I learned HTML,CSS, Bootstrap, Python, Jekyl, Flask, Django, Heroku, Github ...
---

<h2>
    Week Six
</h2>
<hr>
This week we are half way through the bootcamp. So far I learned HTML,CSS, Bootstrap, Python, Jekyl, Flask, Django, Heroku, Github, using an API,etc. Continuing from last week, I learnt Django a web application framework based for Python.

I learnt using autentication forms in Django for logging in , logging out and sign up registration. I used @login_required decorator to autehticate the user to perform certain actions like editing/adding.

I was assigned an individual project to basically create a clone of the Twitter website using Django. The basic requirements of the project are - Viewing user list, tweet list, user detail, tweet details, login, logout and signup. These constitute the basic features of the twitter clone application. The bonus requirements are follow/unfollow a user, hashtagging a tweet, uploading profile pictures.

This project will be my first portfolio project. Before taking up this project worked on a "bookworm" class project. The "bookworm" project exposed me to Django, ORM and it's components. I applied the concepts learned in the "bookworm" project to "Twitter clone" project.

To begin with the project I planned on designing the basic models required. I created basic models "Users" and "Tweet". I created the account model for the login, registrations, logout and the core model for the templates/forms. I did all my planning of models and their relationships on paper.

After planning on paper, I created these models in Django. While trying to display attributes of "User" and "Tweet" models, I realized Django already has a in-built "User" model. Then I had to change my user model to "Profile" model.

The "Tweet" model is related to "Profile" model using an attribute "profile" which is a foreign key to "Profile". I tried calling attribute "tweet" in my "Profile" model it threw an error, I then realized that Django automatically created a foreign key named as "tweet_set". I could confirm this through the command prompt using dir ("Profile" object). In several instances like the one mentioned above I realized Django is smart enough to automatically does certian things making the life of the developer much easier.

After 5 days of work I was able to generate a decent but simple "Twitter clone" application. It includes the user authentication features, ability add/edit profile and tweet details, follow or unfollow other users.



