---
layout: page
title: Python & OOP
---

I started learning Python when it was given as pre-work for Bootcamp. I had no knowledge about the language and about its application. Tried learning the language theoretically. 

Python & OOP(Classes, super classes, instances,) are for the second week course at the Bootcamp. 
It throwed more light in understanding the concept of OOP and its necessary in python.

As course work, we were given Text-adventure game development and To-do list.
Text-adventure game is an individual assignment. When I started the assignement, I was thinking about the game plan.I didnt think how I am going to write in Python, how could I put thoughts to program scripts.I was exicited and was crazly planning (actually dreaming) about the my game.

Now the reality. I stepped in and wrote the first script for calling main. I felt .. so simple and I am gonna finish it in a day (I wonder why they gave time till Tuesday?!!). 

Then I created main game logic. My gaming excitment shattered. I felt I myself got caught into maze. I didnt know where to start and what to do. I was struck. My brain froze. 
Then I realized how to approach this (All credits to my husband in helping in approaching the script writing). 
I kept my plan simple. Then I just wanted to write script for just getting the player details. Then I just added a class for creating a Maze (array). I made seperate classes for the major sections of the game as guided by Matt. 

My scripts were in bits, all I need to do is to connect them. Here, I had real knowledge of how classes act in Python. I hated getting errors in running the script. Nick and Drew showed how to read the errors. Before that error is an errors/crap in the script according to me. Now I know little to read the error message and find out a solution. 

I learned additional things like (clearing the screen) from my batchmates. 
Now I am more confident than before in approaching a new script. I feel I have to work more in understanding others script.

To-do list:
To-do list is fun project to me, because I worked with my teammate(Bill). I realized difference between working in solo and in team. Requirements were given to make the app. We discussed about the plan and started doing. 
When working in team I understood different idea of approaching same thing. When I wrote a line/few lines of code, my brain got pre-occupied by some words/syntax. Bill caught the bug and was asking me why this text here?, sometimes I was arguing that is correct. Later I realized I was pre-occupied and read as correct text where actually I typed wrong. Having a teammate, who is patient enough to de-bug my errors in code, made us possible to give a good script.
I felt good in little celebration together when a piece of code worked, which I felt like madness when I used to talk to myself while working alone.
Learned about external file(especially jason file) opening/closing/writing in python. Came to know about something called organization in git hub and little more practise in git.




